up the phone's ringing must be something
urgent
at 11 pm only all the gadgets in the
house are silent
it's your ears that are rigging you can
also hear some hissing
whistling buzzing and even roaring but
all this noise
doesn't have an external source that's
why it's known as
phantom sounds they can occur in one or
both ears
constantly or from time to time they're
usually most noticeable at night
when nothing distracts you hearing noise
in your ears is called
tinnitus it's quite common and affects
15 to 20 percent of people
tinnitus starts in the part of your
inner ear shaped like a snail
it's called the cochlea
your middle ear picks up sound waves
they get translated into electrical
impulses in the inner ear
then sensory nerves carry these impulses
to your brain
if your inner ear works incorrectly your
brain
can misinterpret the sounds tinnitus
occurs when there are some changes in
the cochlear's nerve
they can be caused by loud noise like
chainsaws jackhammers
loud music or shouting tinnitus can
start after a head
neck or ear injury or after you begin to
take certain medications
you can also hear ringing in your ears
if you have some blood pressure issues
elsewhere in the amazing human body some
of the bacteria living in your gut can
produce electricity
shocking they give off electrons and
this
creates tiny electrical currents that's
likely to be the bacteria's backup
system
their way to generate energy humans are
the only animals that have chins
even our closest genetic relatives
gorillas and chimps
lack this small piece of bone that
extends forward from the jaw
their lower jaw slant down and back from
their front teeth
scientists still haven't figured out
this mystery the opinions about why
people are made this way differ
some researchers think chins help us
chew our food
others are sure they have something to
do with speaking a few of us think it's
simply a special place to grow a goatee
blinking keeps your eyes clean and moist
but that's not all
every time you blink you take a micro
nap
researchers from washington university
have found out that blinking
makes your attention sharper and works
as a teeny recharge
[Music]
ever seen tiny dots traveling in
squiggly lines
especially when you're looking at a
bright blue sky these dots are only
visible for a second or so
and might look like itty-bitty worms
those
are your white blood cells moving
through the capillaries in front of the
retina
that's the light-sensitive tissue at the
back of your eyes
curiously most people don't even notice
the dots unless asked to pay attention
the pineal gland in your brain handles
the production of melatonin
that's the very hormone that regulates
your sleep patterns
the gland looks like a pine nut and
that's how it got its name
the human brain is 73 water
and the same is true about the heart
that's why if your brain loses even two
percent of liquid
you start to feel tired it also makes
your memory worse
shortens your attention span and puts a
dampener on your mood
by the way your brain makes sure you
don't drink too little or too
much water after you swallow some liquid
your mouth and throat
start to fire signals to your brain
telling it to stop drinking
otherwise you'd be gulping down water
for the entire 10 to 60 minutes
it takes the liquid to get to your cells
your eyes can see something for a mere
13 milliseconds and your brain will
already process
this image for comparison the average
blink lasts from 100 to 400 milliseconds
even though the tongue isn't the
strongest muscle in your body
it never gets tired that's because of
the way it's built
it's made up of eight interwoven muscles
but unlike other muscles in your body
these aren't situated around a
supporting bone
the tongue structure is similar to an
elephant's trunk
or an octopuses tentacles
your body emits visible light that's why
they call me sunny
you're the brightest at 4 pm and your
glow is the least visible
at 10 am unfortunately this glowing is a
thousand times
less intense than what your eyes can see
sweat is mostly water mixed with
proteins sugars
ammonia and a lot of other stuff it even
contains tiny amounts of trace metals
like copper zinc nickel iron and so on
what makes sweat taste salty is the
sodium it contains
plus the more salt you eat the saltier
your sweat is
your body is trying to get rid of the
excess and the fastest way is to sweat
it out
in an adult the blood makes up seven to
eight percent of the total body weight
about 55 percent of your blood is liquid
plasma
the rest is red and white blood cells
and platelets
they form clots and prevent bleeding
you can't swallow and breathe at the
same time the food you swallow and the
air you breathe
go down the same part of your throat at
first
only a bit deeper the passage splits
into the esophagus for food and liquid
and trachea for air when you swallow
your airway gets automatically closed
off this prevents you from accidentally
inhaling food but occasionally it still
happens
your brain sometimes generates more than
48 thoughts in just one minute
that's almost 3 000 thoughts per hour
and 69
000 per day fingernails grow faster on
the dominant hand
if you use your right hand more you'll
have to trim nails on
it more often fingernails also grow more
quickly in the summer and during the day
you might keep in memory up to ten
thousand different faces
sure it varies from person to person and
the average number is five thousand
it doesn't mean you can put a name to
each of these faces
it's only about recognizing the features
now you might try to hide the truth but
your nose will always give you away
when a person tells a lie the
temperature around their nose
and in the inner corners of their eyes
goes up
this phenomenon is known as the
pinocchio effect
women have more taste buds on the
surface of their tongues than men do
that's one of the reasons why 35 percent
of ladies
and only 15 percent of guys are super
tasters
those are people who feel flavors more
strongly than others
your teeth are the only part of your
body that can't repair itself
but the enamel they're covered with is
one of the toughest things in the human
body
your heartbeat often syncs with the
music you're listening to
if a piece has a continuous increase in
volume or tempo
like rock it can make your heart rate
faster
some classic music lowers heart rate and
blood pressure
this phenomenon affects everyone from
professional musicians to amateurs
and music lovers there are two to five
million sweat glands on your body the
sweat they produce is of two different
kinds
stress sweat and regular sweat hey don't
sweat the small stuff huh
the sweat caused by stress has fatty
acids and proteins in it
and the regular sweat is mostly made up
of water salt
and a tiny bit of other substances it's
actually possible to brush your teeth
too thoroughly and hard this can wear
down the enamel
and make your teeth super sensitive to
cold and hot foods
if you walked in the same direction for
12 hours a day
you would need around 800 days to travel
around the globe
and don't forget your rubber boots for
the ocean parts
if your stomach acid made contact with
your skin
it would most likely eat a hole in it
all because of hydrochloric
acid this type of acid is incredibly
potent
it can easily dissolve some metals for
example
magnesium or zinc hydrochloric acid is
the main component of the gastric acid
your stomach produces
it protects your immune system and gets
rid of viruses and bacteria in the food
you eat
this acid also helps your body break
down digest
and absorb all kinds of nutrients
including proteins
your lips look red because there is a
great concentration of miniature blood
capillaries
right below the skin your pinky is a
powerful little thing
without it your hand would lose a
significant part of its power
your index and middle fingers cooperate
with your thumb to grab and pinch
and your pinky together with your ring
finger provides
grip strength the fattest organ in your
body
is your brain fat makes up at least 60
percent of its dry weight
this quality got the brain to the
guinness world records
the organ contains around 25 percent of
your body's cholesterol
which is vital for the brain's
well-being so
is that where the term fat head comes
from
your skeletal cells never stop
regenerating that's why you get a new
skeleton
every 10 years or so this process slows
down with age
and the regeneration takes longer that's
one of the main reasons why
bones become thinner and there's a newly
discovered type of brain cells crucial
for visual search
they're called target cells without
their help you wouldn't be able to spot
an acquaintance in a crowd
or your dog in the park interestingly
target cells don't care what the thing
you're searching for
looks like all they want to know is
whether an object is your target or not
hey it's not picky